## 1.1 Hello Mr. Turing

Alan Turing was a computer pioneer and artificial intelligence researcher (you may have seen "The Imitation Game" starring
Benedict Cumberbatch as Mr. Turing). One of Alan's ideas was that we could write an
intelligent program that would behave and talk just like a person and someone typing at a
keyboard would not be able to tell the difference between an actual person and the program.

Here we'll create a robot which can chat to someone by reading from the keyboard, "thinking" and
writing speech to the screen. We will ask the person typing some questions and try to
reply sensibly to their responses, getting as close as we can to what a real person might
say.

### Example Solution

```python

import random
import time

print('Hello')
time.sleep(2)

# ask a question and store the answer
name = input('what is your name ?')
# pause before answering, a real person would need time to type.
time.sleep(2)

# personalize the greeting
print('Hello ' + name)

# how are they feeling ?
feeling = input('how are you today ?')
time.sleep(2)

​if "good" in feeling:
    print("I'm feeling good too!")
else:
    print("I'm sorry to hear that!")

colour = input('What is your favourite colour? ')
time.sleep(2)

# pick a random favourite colour for us to say
colours = ["Red","Green","Blue", "Yellow"]
my_colour = random.choice(colours)

if colour == my_colour:
  print("We both like " + colour + " :)")
else:  
  print("My favourite colour is " + my_colour)

```

### Extensions

* Ask how old the person is. Say something appropriate if they are younger, older
or the same age as you.

* Ask what their favourite food is and reply with yours.

* Ask what kind of music they like and their favourite artist. Add a random reaction,
"I love.., hate.., don't like.., do like..." etc.

* Add more questions

* The responses are case sensitive at the moment, adapt the code to be more accurate
tolerant of someone typing in UPPER CASE or Mixed Case.

* A real person would need time to type their answer, change the delays to be different
for each response. Is it more lifelike if each has a random wait?
